So, that is reviewing the market and
it is definitely the place that
I would encourage you to start.
But very quickly after that,
you need to get into the idea of
understanding your audience, right?
And, this is a really interesting
balance that you need to find here,
because you don't just need
to find your audience,
you also need to tailor
the app to the audience.
So it's a symbiotic relationship.
So if you've had an idea for an app,
the chances are there won't be the perfect
audience out there for that app exactly
as you've got it in your head, right?
Because it just doesn't work like that.
Instead, you need to find that
audience and then allow what you learn
about the audience to inform
the exact nature of the app.
So just bear that in mind,
and that's why it's so
important to really not just
kind of segment your audience or
define your niche or whatever pretentious
marketing jargon you want to throw around.
You also have to really understand
those people so that you can understand
the unique things that they want
from the thing you're creating.
Right, and now I think it's one of
the big mistakes again that I see is
because we jump into developing it
because that's what we know how to do.
And we build the thing and
then go and look for the audience.
But it's not that binary.
It's messier than that.
So let's talk about a day adapting
your app for your audience just so
you can see some ways that that is done.
First of all, you will have to adapt
your features, what precisely the app
will do needs to be tailored to the
audience that you are targeting, right?
So it may be that some of the ideas
you've had are just not relevant for
that audience.
There may be things for
features that you hadn't considered
that will need to be included.
And then there's the top tasks.
Depending on the niche that you've picked,
the audience that you've picked,
there will be different features
that they care about more,
things that they want to do more.
And so we need to make sure that
those features are highlighted, and
what those features are will
depend on the audience.
And then finally,
there's how we communicate with our
audience will depend on who they are.
You need to talk to different
people in different ways.
So we need to understand our audience,
and to do that, first of all,
we need to pick our audience specifically.
So the way that I tend to do this is I
identify all the possible audiences I can
think of, right?
So I'm just brainstorming lots and
lots of different audiences,
then I shortlist those audiences into
ones that I think are most viable.
I pick an initial target of an audience
that I'm initially gonna build for
and then I dig deeper into that audience.
Those are the steps.
Now let's run through those
in a bit more detail.
So step one is identify
your possible audiences.
Again, this is gonna depend on
whether we're targeting B2B and B2C.
But just to recap what I've
literally just said, but
I'm gonna say it again just
because we're now at that point.
If your B2B, look at different verticals.
What are all the verticals that you could,
all the different sectors that
you might be able to target,
that might be interested in whatever
it is you're building, right?
What are the different size of
organizations that you could target?
Yeah, it's obvious, and what different
regions might you've target.
Don't constrain yourself at this point,
just write everything.
You don't need to write
every country on the planet,
cuz I don't think anybody's
gonna buy it in Antarctica, but
anything that's reasonably sane,
put on that list at that point.
So to give you some ideas of what
those different things mean,
cuz it might not always
be immediately obvious.
If you're talking about verticals,
some verticals might be health care,
higher education, charities,
finance, technology, right, real estate,
as we were talking about earlier.
And sizes might be based on revenue,
based on the number of employees,
the market share they've got,
the assets they've got, their valuation.
That's a way different ways
of sizing an organization.
And region might be geographic region, it
might be country, it might be state, city,
it might even be down a zip code for
crying out loud.
I'm working on an app at the moment
that's intending to roll out nationally,
but it's starting just on
the Lower East Side of New York, right,
in order to pick its initial audience.
If you're working on B2C, as I said
earlier, its interests, its demographics,
and its region.
So to look at those in a bit more detail,
interest might be sports,
hobbies, media, values, lifestyle.
They're all different interests that
people have that you might be able to
target around.
Demographics might include age,
gender, education, income,
family, and then regions again,
the same as before.
And like I said, you can look at
your competition for inspiration.
Who are they gonna target?
Who follows them is always a good
starting point, but you could also look
beyond that, who's talking about the pain
points that you're solving, right?
So on social media, on the internet,
who's moaning about the thing
that you're fixing.
So I tend to use Buzzsumo
to help with that.
Hootsuite is quite good for
helping with that.
And mention.com are all good for kind of
analyzing what people are saying online.
And like I was saying before,
I look at related SEO terms in
order to give me a sense of
the different kind of apps and
which is performing better.
So let me give you an example.
So if you're creating a task app and
what are all the related phrases
associated with task apps?
So project task management or
housework task app or that kind of thing.
And then I'll actually compare paired the
levels with one another, which ones have
got the biggest market associated with
them just to give me a kind of idea.
So you can use things like keyword
manager, Google Keyword manager for
that or Ahrefs or SMErush,
will all help kind of you understand what
different terminologies
is being used around it.
So once I've done that initial brainstorm,
I've got massive big list of potential
audiences that that I like the look of.
It's then time to shortlist them, right,
to get them down to ones that would
actually make a feasible business, okay?
What I do to do that is I start by just
removing the impractical options, right?
So I can't speak Mandarin,
so probably that excludes
a big Asian market that I
probably don't wanna look at
initially because that's a bit
out my wheelhouse, right?
Or I know nothing about crochet, so
I probably don't wanna target
the crochet market and so on, right?
So I kind of just get rid of ones that are
pretty impractical for whatever reason.
And then from what's remain
is I prioritize them, right?
So I now just start organizing them
based on some criteria to go with
which has got the most potential.
Now, obviously you need
to know how I prioritize.
So I often start with stock
market size and growth potential,
it's not to say that always go with
the biggest cuz like I said earlier,
niching down is good,
but I do look at volume.
Is the audience large enough to
sustain and grow my business?
Or would I need to secondary audiences
to support it, and that's fine, right?
The app that I was talking
about a minute ago,
which is starting on the Lower East Side,
right?
They know that it's not gonna be
sustained on the Lower East Side.
That's not gonna be enough.
That's just their initial audience.
But you kind of need to be
aware of that going in.
And then there's growth.
Look for a market with growth potential.
So maybe, it's a market that
you know is growing over time.
So for example, baby boomers
are really getting old now, right?
So if you were creating a care app,
for example, great,
there's a growth market
there until they will die.
And then you've got Gen Xs to deal with,
who as we have established,
are the best generation.
So great market size and potential.
Then there's market needs and
pain points as well.
So does your product offer a compelling
solution to a specific need,
problem, or pain point for
your audiences in that list?
If it's not a really compelling thing,
then deprioritize that
as a potential audience.
So you can really focus in on just
the ones that you've got something really
compelling.
But also consider underserved needs.
So there might be some audiences that
maybe your offering isn't quite as
compelling, but
nobody else is addressing that anyway.
So it might be worth
considering a little bit more.
Then there's product fit.
Does your product features benefits and
user experience align with
the the target audience's preferences and
requirements?
Then there's adaptability.
How adaptable will your product be for
changes in what that audience
might need over time?
Then of course there's
competitive landscape.
How well does the competition meet
the needs, saturation in the market?
How entrenched
are the existing competitors?
So I look at that as well, and if it's
an over-saturated market with a lot of,
it's gonna be hard to do, demote it.
Don't wanna look at it.
There's buying power, right?
Can these people actually afford your app,
cuz why are you wasting
your time otherwise?
And do they have the power
to make the purchase or
is there another audience that is
influencing that purchasing decision.
I do also think about things like
lifetime value, profitability for
example, how much profit am I likely
to be able to make off this audience?
Am I gonna have to keep it really cheap
for them to be able to afford it?
So my margins are gonna be lower.
How loyal are they likely to be to me?
All of this is guesswork, right, but
it's just thinking through these things.
And you can look at accessibility as well.
Can you reach this audience?
Are you gonna be able to get at them or
are they gonna be really hard to get at?
And that actually is a really important
one that we will come on to later.
And engagement,
how willing is that audience gonna
be to engage with your brand?
Are they gonna want to talk to you?
And then sometimes you need to
think about regulatory stuff,
which if you're working in the B2B sector,
are there compliance rules?
That means that developing it for this
audience are gonna be a pain in the butt.
For example, if you wanted to create
a banking app, right, do I really wanna be
dealing with the banking sector and
all of the crap that comes with that?
And some of these, obviously, that can
result in a very high barrier to entry
because you gotta have certification and
regulation and blah, blah, blah.
You also need to think about cultural fit.
It's a bit of an abstract thing, but
do you understand the values and
preferences of the audience
you're trying to reach?
Can you effectively communicate with them?
I know that I'm very hip and trendy, but
there are certain audiences that I
wouldn't be able to communicate very
well with because I don't have
any shared values with them.
And if I'm not intending
to hire a lot of staff or
whatever else, I'll probably
wanna avoid them as a market.
And then language and localization.
Do I understand the culture
of the country?
Do I know its languages, etc?
We mentioned technical savviness already,
users proficiency in that.
If they might struggle with your app,
then we're gonna have to do
a lot of support and education.
Do I wanna spend the time doing
all of that, blah, blah, blah?
Now, not all of those things are equal.
It's messy.
I'd love to say, right, okay, first of
all, you're a prioritized audience and
then you do this, and
then you do that, and
now you end up with a prioritized list.
And it's all very one step,
two step, three step, right?
Unfortunately in the kind of world I
operate in, things are messier than that,
but have a go with those criteria
in the back of your mind.
Go with a gut reaction based on what
you've learned from your competitive
analysis and
the research that you've done online,
just write yourself a prioritized
list of what feels right, right?
And that's better than nothing,
[LAUGH] okay?
It's better than just kind
of picking one at random.